docs: clarify hierarchical injectors (#28700)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection.md

# Hierarchical injectors

> Injectors in Angular allow you to determine where you provide services in your app.

Author: Fixed.

> There are two examples for this guide, the <live-example></live-example> demonstrating possible [use cases](guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#elementinjector-use-case-examples) and a separate example showcasing the <live-example name="resolution-modifiers">resolution modifiers</live-example> from the [resolution modifiers section](guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#resolution-modifiers) of this guide.

Author: You're right. For clarity, I'm removing it from here and keeping it in the intros of the sections where they are relevant (and where the sentence only mentions one at a time).

## Two injector hierarchies

There are two injector hierarchies in Angular:

> 1. `ModuleInjector`&mdash;configure a `ModuleInjector` using an `@NgModule()` or `@Injectable()` annotation. Use `@Injectable.providedIn` to make your services tree-shakeable.

Author: Got it. Fixed.

> 1. `ElementInjector`&mdash;created implicitly at each DOM element. An `ElementInjector` is empty by default

Author: Done.

unless you configure it in the `providers` property on `@Directive()` or `@Component()`.

{@a register-providers-injectable}

### `ModuleInjector`

> Angular creates a `ModuleInjector` in one of two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular creates a `ModuleInjector` provider in one of two ways:
```

I guess here is not describing the creation of `Injector`? (Or would `service` be better?)

Author: Fixed!

> 1. The `@Injectable()` `providedIn` property configured with an @NgModule, such as `root` or

Reviewer: Should `@NgModule` be codified as ``` `@NgModule` ```?

Author: Yes. I'll fix it. Thank you so much for your review! I'll leave your comments unresolved until I've incorporated them. 🌈🙏🏼🌺@trotyl

Author: Fixed and fixed. Thank you both!

a lazy loaded feature module.

> 1. From the `@NgModule()` `providers` array.

Author: Fixed.

> `@NgModule.providers` is explicitly configured while `@Injectable.providedIn` is implicitly configured and the `ModuleInjector` is a runtime representation of that configuration.

Author: You're right. I'll remove it for now and keep it in mind in case it can help further along the process. Thank you for the clarification.

<div class="is-helpful alert">

> <h4>Tree shaking and <code>@Injectable()</code></h4>

Reviewer: Currently both `tree shaking` and `tree-shaking` being used across the doc, would better to align the form?

Author: Yes. I meant to use it hyphenated. Great catch. Fixed.

Using the `@Injectable()` `providedIn` property is preferable to the `@NgModule()` `providers`

> array because with `@Injectable()` `providedIn`, optimization tools such as those the CLI uses can perform tree shaking, which removes services that your app isn't using and results in smaller bundle sizes.

Author: Fixed.

Tree-shaking is especially useful for a library that offers a particular service that some

> components *might* want to inject optionally,

Author: Thank you. Fixed.

and leave it up to the app whether to provide the service. Read more
about [tree-shakable providers](guide/dependency-injection-providers#tree-shakable-providers) in [DI Providers](guide/dependency-injection-providers).

</div>

> If an @NgModule imports other @NgModules, all of those providers from imported @NgModules are flattened into a single `ModuleInjector`. Create child `ModuleInjector`s by lazy loading other @NgModules, rather than by importing them.

Reviewer: `@NgModule` -> ``` `@NgModule` ```?

Author: Fixed!

Provide services with the `providedIn` property of `@Injectable()` as follows:

```ts

import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root'  // <--provides this service in the root ModuleInjector
})
export class ItemService {
  name = 'telephone';
}

```

The `@Injectable()` decorator identifies a service class. The `providedIn` property configures a specific `ModuleInjector`, here `root`, which makes the service available in the `root` `ModuleInjector`.

#### `ProvidedIn` a feature module

> To provide a service in an NgModule other than `root`, configure the `@Injectable()` `providedIn` property with the name of the lazy loaded module as follows:

Reviewer: name of?

Author: @trotyl Hm, how should I refer to a module other than `root`? My thinking is that you'd use the name of whatever module you were lazy loading. For example "UserModule" or "ShoppingCartModule". So if you were to refer to either of them, should I use another term other than "name of"? Is "token" more specific?

Reviewer: Sorry for the late reply, I was originally worried about people passing a string (like in next comment). But even with not using a string, user can write any kind of expression as long as it results to the reference of some `NgModule`, like `providedIn: isProd ? FooModule : BarModule` (hope no one doing that in real app). I'd suggest "reference to" instead.

Author: Thanks for this. Now I understand. The section has been significantly rewritten, so closing this conversation out.

<!-- Is this part right? -->

```ts

@Injectable({
  // this declares that this service should be created
  // by any injector that includes ItemModule.

>   providedIn: 'ItemModule' // <--provide this service in the ItemModule ModuleInjector

Reviewer: It should be reference, not string.

Author: oooooh this is where I'd had it wrong in my example, too. Good catch indeed, @trotyl!!

})

export class ItemService {
  name = "Television";
}

```

Next, be sure that the `@NgModule`, in this case `ItemModule`, is lazy loaded. Lazy loading `ItemModule` creates a new child `ModuleInjector` that limits the `ItemService` to that new `ModuleInjector`. Now the `ItemService` will be available in any injector that includes the `ItemModule`.

<!-- KW when the bug is fixed, we can add this ItemModule to the example -->

#### Platform injector

There are two more injectors above `root`, an additional `ModuleInjector` and `NullInjector()`.

Consider how Angular bootstraps the app with the following in `main.ts`:

```javascript
platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule).then(ref => {...})
```

> The `bootstrapModule()` method creates a child injector of the platform injector which is configured by the `AppModule`. This is the `root` `ModuleInjector`.

Reviewer: This is not an `ModuleInjector`, there's no `NgModule` got involved.

Author: So if I remove:

> ~This is the `root` `ModuleInjector`.~

and leave: 

> The `bootstrapModule()` method creates a child injector of the platform injector which is configured by the `AppModule`. 

Is that more correct? I thought we were talking about the `root` `ModuleInjector` because of `AppModule`. No?  I'm learning as I go :)  @trotyl

Reviewer: Sorry, I missed read `bootstrapModule()` as `platformBrowserDynamic()`, this one is correct. 👍

> The `platformBrowserDynamic()` method creates an injector configured by a `PlatformModule`, which contains things such as DomSanitizer and other platform-specific dependencies. This allows multiple apps to share a platform configuration.

Reviewer: `PlatformModule` means `BrowserModule` or `ServerModule`, which is still part of the application module injector.

Author: Oh...can you help me make it clearer/correct? I'm not clear on the implications of what you're saying (because I don't have a deep grasp of that particular point already - I struggled with that part). @trotyl

Reviewer: Currently an angular platform package (e.g. `@angular/platform-browser`) is providing things in two parts: the **platform part (`platformBrowser`)** and the **companion module part (`BrowserModule`)**, which their own providers individually. **They're not connected in any sense except coming from same npm package**.

The **platform providers** are what passed in `createPlatformFactory `:

https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/ea70d41ac2314cdfc58688b488f85108466e5f92/packages/platform-browser/src/browser.ts#L46-L47

Namely, only `PLATFORM_ID`, `PLATFORM_INITIALIZER`, `PlatformLocation` and `DOCUMENT`.

[`BROWSER_SANITIZATION_PROVIDERS`](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/ea70d41ac2314cdfc58688b488f85108466e5f92/packages/platform-browser/src/browser.ts#L38-L41) is referenced by [`BROWSER_MODULE_PROVIDERS `](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/ea70d41ac2314cdfc58688b488f85108466e5f92/packages/platform-browser/src/browser.ts#L62-L91), then provided in `BrowserModule`.

Technically one can use `platformBrowser()` without `BrowserModule`, vice versa. This is useful to reduce bundle size (will continue to work by simply providing a noop sanitizer and minimal renderer).

Author: This is brilliant. Thank you so much.

> The `platformBrowserDynamic()` method creates an injector configured by a `PlatformModule`, which contains things such as DomSanitizer and other platform-specific dependencies. This allows multiple apps to share a platform configuration.

Reviewer: `DomSanitizer` is [provided by `BrowserModule`](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/5e68e35112b425879aac35821c56d3b51ea0796d/packages/platform-browser/src/browser.ts#L41) NgModule, not `platformBrowser` platform.

Author: Are there any things that `platformBrowser` contains that would be notable that I should include here, or do you think I should remove the phrase? @trotyl

Reviewer: Explained in https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/28700#discussion_r275162632, the `DomSanitizer` is part of `AppModule` which instantiated in the Module injector, not the Platform injector.

Author: Oh, this is a very helpful stackblitz example. Fixed (I'd meant to before!). Thanks!

For example, a browser has only one URL bar, no matter how many apps you have running.
You can configure additional platform-specific providers at the platform level by supplying `extraProviders` using the `platformBrowser()` function.
<!-- ^^Is this correct about the address bar? -KW -->

The next parent injector in the hierarchy is the `NullInjector()`, which is the top of the tree. If you've gone so far up the tree that you are looking for a service in the `NullInjector()`, you'll get an error unless you've used `@Optional()` because ultimately, everything ends at the `NullInjector()` and it returns an error or, in the case of `@Optional()`, `null`. For more information on `@Optional()`, see the [`@Optional()` section](guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#optional) of this guide.

The following diagram represents the relationship between the `root` `ModuleInjector` and its parent injectors as the previous paragraphs describe.

>  <figure>

Author: Fixed.

  <img src="generated/images/guide/dependency-injection/injectors.svg" alt="NullInjector, ModuleInjector, root injector">
</figure>

While the name `root` is a special alias, other `ModuleInjector`s don't have aliases. You have the option to create `ModuleInjector`s whenever a dynamically loaded component is created, such as with the Router, which will create child `ModuleInjector`s.

> If you only register providers with the root injector at the top level, the tree of injectors appears to be flat.

Author: `forward` is a lot better. Removed "flat tree" sentence because it's superfluous.

All requests bubble up to the root injector, whether you configured it with the `bootstrapModule()` method, or registered all providers with `root` in their own services.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

<h4><code>@Injectable()</code> vs. <code>@NgModule()</code></h4>

> If you configure a app-wide provider in the `@NgModule()` metadata for AppModule, it overrides one configured for `root` in the `@Injectable()` metadata. You can do this to configure a non-default provider of a service that is shared with multiple apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you configure an app-wide provider in the `@NgModule()` metadata for AppModule, it overrides one configured for `root` in the `@Injectable()` metadata. You can do this to configure a non-default provider of a service that is shared with multiple apps.
```

Author: Ah, thank you both. I did intend `AppModule` in backticks.

# Hierarchical injectors

Injectors in Angular have rules that you can leverage to achieve the desired visibility in your apps.

> By understanding these rules, you can determine in which provider you should declare a service.

Author: Ah ok. Got it. Fixed.

## Two injector hierarchies

There are two injector hierarchies in Angular:

1. `ModuleInjector` hierarchy&mdash;configure a `ModuleInjector` in this hierarchy using an `@NgModule()` or `@Injectable()` annotation.
1. `ElementInjector` hierarchy&mdash;created implicitly at each DOM element. An `ElementInjector` is empty by default

> unless you configure it in the `providers` property on `@Directive()` or `@Component()`.

Reviewer 2: @trotyl technically you are correct. Is it worth complicating the mental model?

> unless you configure it in the `providers` property on `@Directive()` or `@Component()`.

Reviewer: @mhevery Even without considering intrinsic view services, the Components and Directives themselves on the element would fill the injector as providers, which is much more important than imperative `providers` metadata, so I don't think this is correct to call it empty.

{@a register-providers-injectable}

### `ModuleInjector`

The `ModuleInjector` can be configured in one of two ways:

> * Using the `@Injectable()` `providedIn` property to refer to `@NgModule()`, such as `root`.

Author: Got it! :)

with the `bootstrapModule()` method, or registered all providers with `root` in their own services.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

<h4><code>@Injectable()</code> vs. <code>@NgModule()</code></h4>

If you configure an app-wide provider in the `@NgModule()` of `AppModule`, it overrides one configured for `root` in the `@Injectable()` metadata. You can do this to configure a non-default provider of a service that is shared with multiple apps.

Here is an example of the case where the component router configuration includes
a non-default [location strategy](guide/router#location-strategy) by listing its provider
in the `providers` list of the `AppModule`.

<code-example path="dependency-injection-in-action/src/app/app.module.ts" region="providers" header="src/app/app.module.ts (providers)">

</code-example>

</div>

### `ElementInjector`

Angular creates `ElementInjector`s implicitly for each DOM element.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

**Note:** Specifically, `ElementInjector` is more nunaced in that they are created _sparsely_. For a mental model though, assume that each DOM element gets an `ElementInjector`.

</div>

> Providing a service in the `@Component()` decorator using its `providers` or `providersArray`

Author: Ohhh good catch! Fixed.

</div>

When you provide services in a component, that service is available via
the `ElementInjector` at that component instance. It may also be visible at
child component/directives based on visibility rules described in the [resolution rules](guide/router#) section.

When the component instance is destroyed, so is that service instance.

#### `@Directive()` and `@Component()`

A component is a special type of directive, which means that just as `@Directive()` has a `providers` property, `@Component()` does too.
This means that directives as well as components can configure providers, using the `providers` property.
When you configure a provider for a component or directive using the `providers` property,
that provider belongs to the `ElementInjector` of that component or
directive.
Components and directives on the same element share an injector.

{@a resolution-rules}

## Resolution rules

When resolving a token for a component/directive, Angular resolves it in two phases:

> 1. Against the `ElementInjector` hierarchy and its parents

Reviewer 2: perhaps change the wording to `Against the `ElementInjector` hierarchy (its parents) `

> 1. Against the `ElementInjector` hierarchy and its parents

Author: Done!

If you have registered a provider for the same DI token at different levels, the first one Angular encounters is the one it uses to resolve the dependency. If, for example, a provider is registered locally in the component that needs a service, Angular doesn't look for another provider of the same service.

## Resolution modifiers

Angular's resolution behavior can be modified with `@Optional()`, `@Self()`,
`@SkipSelf()` and `@Host()`. Import each of them from `@angular/core` and use each in the component class constructor when you inject your service.

For a working app showcasing the resolution modifiers that this section covers, see the <live-example name="resolution-modifiers">resolution modifiers example</live-example>.

### Types of modifiers

Resolution modifiers fall into three categories:

1. What to do if Angular doesn't find what you're looking for, that is `@Optional()`
2. Where to start looking, that is `@SkipSelf()`
3. Where to stop looking, `@Host()` and `@Self()`

By default, Angular always starts at the current `Injector` and keeps
searching all the way up. Modifiers allow you to change the starting
(self) or ending location.

> Additionally, you can combine all of the modifiers except `@Host()` and `@Self()`. See an [example](guide/dependency-injection-in-action#qualify-dependency-lookup) of using `@Host()` together with `@Optional()`.

Author: Ha! Good point. Fixed. Also removed link because the `@Host()` + `@Optional()` combination is in the example now.

{@a optional}

### `@Optional()`

`@Optional()` allows Angular to consider a service you inject to be optional.
This way, if it can't be resolved at runtime, Angular simply
resolves the service as `null`, rather than throwing an error. In
the following example, the service, `OptionalService`, isn't provided in
the service, `@NgModule()`, or component class, so it isn't available
anywhere in the app.

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/optional/optional.component.ts" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/optional/optional.component.ts" region="optional-component">

</code-example>

### `@Self()`

> Use `@Self()` so that Angular will only look at the `ElementInjector` for the current component.

Author: yes! Fixed.

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/skipself/skipself.component.ts" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/skipself/skipself.component.ts" region="skipself-component">

</code-example>

In this case, the value you'd get for `emoji` would be `🌿` (fern), not `🌱` (sapling).

#### `@SkipSelf()` with `@Optional()`

Use `@SkipSelf()` with `@Optional()` to prevent an error if the value is `null`. In the following example, the `Person` service is injected in the constructor. `@SkipSelf()` tells Angular to skip the current injector and `@Optional()` will prevent an error should the `Person` service be `null`.

``` ts
class Person {
  constructor(@Optional() @SkipSelf() parent: Person) {}
}
```

### `@Host()`

`@Host()` lets you designate a component as the last stop in the injector tree when searching for providers. Even if there is a service instance further up the tree, Angular won't continue looking. Use `@Host()` as follows:

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/host/host.component.ts" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/host/host.component.ts" region="host-component">

</code-example>

> Since `HostComponent` has `@Host()` in its constructor, no matter what the parent of `HostComponent` might have as a `flower.emjoi` value,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `HostComponent` has `@Host()` in its constructor, no matter what the parent of `HostComponent` might have as a `flower.emoji` value,
```

Author: Proof I'm actually typing all these letters with my little fingers. Fixed! 😅

The choices you make about where to configure providers lead to differences in the final bundle size, service _scope_, and service _lifetime_.

> When you specify providers in the `@Injectable()` decorator of the service itself (typically at the app root level), optimization tools such as those used by the CLI's production builds can perform *tree shaking*, which removes services that your app isn't using. Tree shaking results in smaller bundle sizes.

Reviewer 2: Could we start with the overview that there are two injector trees. NgModuleInjector tree and NodeInjector tree. Then talk about the rules about what order do the injectors get queried while resolving injectables. And finally talk about how to configure those injectors.

Author: For the curious, this has been rewritten and is in the latest.

<header>Platform injector</header>

When you use `providedIn:'root'`, you are configuring the root injector for the _app_, which is the injector for `AppModule`.
The actual root of the entire injector hierarchy is a _platform injector_ that is the parent of app-root injectors.
This allows multiple apps to share a platform configuration. For example, a browser has only one URL bar, no matter how many apps you have running.

The platform injector is used internally during bootstrap, to configure platform-specific dependencies. You can configure additional platform-specific providers at the platform level by supplying `extraProviders` using the `platformBrowser()` function.

Learn more about dependency resolution through the injector hierarchy:
[What you always wanted to know about Angular Dependency Injection tree](https://blog.angularindepth.com/angular-dependency-injection-and-tree-shakeable-tokens-4588a8f70d5d)

</div>

*NgModule-level* providers can be specified with `@NgModule()` `providers` array, or in the `@Injectable()` `providedIn` property (with some module other than the root `AppModule`).

> Use the `@NgModule()` `providers` array if a module is [lazy loaded](guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules). The module's own injector is configured with the provider when that module is loaded, and Angular can inject the corresponding services in any class it creates in that module. If you use the `@Injectable()` property `providedIn: MyLazyLoadedModule`, but don't use it in your app, you can take advantage of tree shaking.

Reviewer 3: I think it is better to retain original one. I highlighted the misleading part:

> If you use the `@Injectable()` property `providedIn: MyLazyLoadedModule`, but **don't use it in your app**, you can take advantage of tree shaking.

to

> If you use the `@Injectable()` option `providedIn: MyLazyloadModule`, the provider could be shaken out at compile time, if it is not used anywhere else in the app.

Author: Nice suggestion. Thanks, @jinbeomhong

### @NgModule-level injectors

> You can configure a provider at the module level using the `@NgModule` `providers` array for a non-root NgModule, in order to limit the scope of the provider to that NgModule **if it is lazy loaded**. If that NgModule is eagerly loaded, the service will be available in the root `ModuleInjector` and available throughout the app.

Reviewer 3: Why did you change `providedIn` to `providers`? The recommended way to declare a service is to use `providedIn`. There are no difference between these, except that the former is recommended because it can make a service could be tree-shaken, when there are no references to it.

Author: Because they're really talking about `@NgModule.providers`, not `@Injectable.providedIn` (notice that they then compare it to being equivalent to the `@Injectble` technique). But yes, we are recommending that people use the injectable way, because of tree-shaking in the docs and there are PRs/plans in the works for this. This PR will have that in it too, as well as more specifics/new sections about the injector trees and dependency resolution. After starting this edit in response to an issue, Misko and I talked about it and I'm going to do a whole lot of re-thinking how it's organized, explained, and adding new material. Because of that work, this paragraph will likely change substantially.

Of course, I always welcome your feedback, but just so you know, it'll be really different before it's done. Thanks again for your helpful comments, @jinbeomhong!

Though this is the equivalent of specifying the non-root module in the `@Injectable()` metadata, the service provided in an NgModule is not tree-shakable.

> You generally don't need to specify `AppModule` in the `providers` array,

Reviewer 2: I am confused by this paragraph. What are you trying to say?

Author: Rewritten.

</code-example>

</div>

### `ElementInjector`

> Angular creates `ElementInjector`s implicitly at each DOM element.

Author: Much better!

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> **Note:** Specifically, `ElementInjector` is more nunaced in that they are created _lazily_. For a mental model though, assume that each DOM element gets an `ElementInjector` right away.

Author: Fixed.

</div>

> When you provide a service in the `@Component()` decorator using its `providers` property, Angular creates an `ElementInjector` and then gives it a `ModuleInjector`. For example, if you have a `TestComponent`, you'd create the `ElementInjector` by providing your service as follows:

Author: Ah I see, @mhevery. How about this:

>Providing a service in the `@Component()` decorator using its `providers`
property configures an `ElementInjector`.
For example, the following `TestComponent` configures the `ElementInjector`
by providing the service as follows:

Sorry about the line break issue. Fixing those as I go.

```ts
@Component({
  ...
  providers: [{ provide: ItemService, useValue: { name: 'console' } }]
})
export class TestComponent

```

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> **Note:** `ModuleInjector` is not a parent of `ElementInjector`. In theory, each element can have a different `ModuleInjector`.

Author: Added. Thanks!

</div>

> When you provide services in a component, that service is available via the `ElementInjector` in that component instance and its child component instances. Angular can't inject the same service instance anywhere else.

Author: Fixed and added link to where the rules are discussed (the Resolution rules section).

> Each new instance of the component gets its own instance of the service.

Reviewer: It's not guaranteed to be different instances, but only the provider being re-initialized for each of the component:

```typescript
providers: [
  { provide: MyService, useValue: someVariable },
  { provide: MyService, useFactory: () => someVariable },
  { provide: MyService, useExisting: AnotherService },
]
```

Author: @trotyl If I remove that sentence and have like this: 

> When you provide services in a component, that service is available via the `ElementInjector` in that component instance and its child component instances. Angular can't inject the same service instance anywhere else.

> When the component instance is destroyed, so is that service instance.

Is that ok? I get what you're saying at a high level, but am not sure how to convey that idea in this example.

Reviewer: Good to me 👍

Author: Fixed.

When the component instance is destroyed, so is that service instance.

#### `@Directive()` and `@Component()`

> Components are a special type of directive, which means that just as `@Directive()` has a `providers` property, `@Component()` does too. This means that directives as well as components can have dependencies, which you configure with the `providers` property. When you configure a provider for a component or directive using the `providers` property, that provider belongs to the `ElementInjector` of that component or directive. Components and directives on the same element share an injector.

Reviewer: `Components are a special type of directive` plural form consistency?

Author: Fixed on all three points. Thank you both!

> Components are a special type of directive, which means that just as `@Directive()` has a `providers` property, `@Component()` does too. This means that directives as well as components can have dependencies, which you configure with the `providers` property. When you configure a provider for a component or directive using the `providers` property, that provider belongs to the `ElementInjector` of that component or directive. Components and directives on the same element share an injector.

Reviewer: `can have dependencies` dependencies are what being requested in constructor, doesn't really matter here. Pipe doesn't have providers but still can have dependencies.

Author: Fixed per previous comment (above).

## Resolution rules

When resolving a token for a component/directive, Angular resolves it in two phases:

> 1. Against the `ElementInjector` and its parents

Author: Fixed.

> 1. Against the `ModuleInjector` and its parents

Author: Fixed.

> When a component requests a dependency, Angular tries to satisfy that

Author: Wow, thanks for this clarification. It makes more sense now. Fixed.

> dependency with a provider registered in that component's own `ElementInjector`.

Author: Fixed.

If the component's injector lacks the provider, it passes the request
up to its parent component's `ElementInjector`.

> If that injector can't satisfy the request, it passes the request along

Author: Good catch. Done.

to the next parent `ElementInjector` up the tree.

> The requests keep bubbling up until Angular finds an injector that can

Author: Fixed.

handle the request or runs out of ancestor `ElementInjector`s.

> If Angular doesn't find the provider in any `ElementInjector`s, it goes back to the element where the request originated and looks in the `ModuleInjector`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Angular doesn't find the provider in any `ElementInjector`s, it goes back to the element where the request originated and looks in the `ModuleInjector` hierarchy.
```

Author: Added.

If Angular still doesn't find the provider, it throws an error.

> If you have registered a provider for the same DI token at different levels, the first one Angular encounters is the one it uses to provide the dependency. If, for example, a provider is registered locally in the component that needs a service, Angular doesn't look for another provider of the same service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have registered a provider for the same DI token at different levels, the first one Angular encounters is the one it uses to resolve the dependency. If, for example, a provider is registered locally in the component that needs a service, Angular doesn't look for another provider of the same service.
```

We resolve dependencies using providers.

Author: Fixed.

 <figure>

>   <img src="generated/images/guide/dependency-injection/di-resolution.svg" alt="DI resolution in ElementInjector tree and then ModuleInjector tree">

Reviewer 2: The figure says `{{flower.emoji}}` which does not make it clear that `flower` is being injected. I think adding the declaration in the form of `constructor(flower: Flower)` would make it more clear.

</figure>

## Resolution modifiers

> You can modify the default resolution behavior with `@Optional()`, `@Self()`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resolution behavior can be modified with `@Optional()`, `@Self()`,
```

Author: Fixed.

`@SkipSelf()` and `@Host()`. Import each of them from `@angular/core` and use each in the component class constructor when you inject your service. For a working app showcasing the resolution modifiers, see the <live-example name="resolution-modifiers">resolution modifiers example</live-example>.

{@a optional}

### `@Optional()`

`@Optional()` allows Angular to consider a service you inject to be optional.

> This way, if it is unavailable at runtime, Angular simply

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way, if it can't be resolved at runtime, Angular simply
```

Author: Fixed.

> assigns a value of null to the service, rather than throwing an error. In

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resolves the service as `null`, rather than throwing an error. In
```

DI resolves not assigns. Variables are assigned.

Author: I didn't know that. Thank you for clarifying. Fixed.

the following example, the service, `OptionalService`, isn't provided in
the service, `@NgModule()`, or component class, so it isn't available
anywhere in the app.

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/optional/optional.component.ts" linenums="false" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/optional/optional.component.ts" region="optional-component">

</code-example>

<!-- Should we have an example of @Optional and @Self together? I think so, to show that it prevents an error -KW -->

### `@Self()`

Use `@Self()` so that Angular will only look at the `ElementInjector` for the current component. For example, in the following `SelfComponent`, notice the `@Component()` `providers` array and the constructor.

> <code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/self/self.component.ts" linenums="false" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/self/self.component.ts" region="self-component">

Author: For the curious: I'm resolving this conversation as we worked on the document to such an extent since this conversation that these points have been integrated along the way.

</code-example>

In this example, Angular will stop looking for the `LeafService` at the
`SelfComponent` and will go no higher in the `ElementInjector` tree, nor will Angular
look in the `ModuleInjector`. So,
if you were to remove the providers array, but leave `@Self()` in the
constructor, the app would break. In the same scenario, if you removed

> `@Self()` too, Angular would then resume its default behavior of looking in the `ElementInjector` tree followed by the `ModuleInjector` tree for the `emoji` value.

Author: For the curious: I'm resolving this conversation as we worked on the document to such an extent since this conversation that these points have been integrated along the way.

### `@SkipSelf()`

`@SkipSelf()` is the opposite of `@Self()`. With `@SkipSelf()`, Angular

> starts its search for a service in the parent component, rather than

Author: Ah ok, fixed.

> in the current one. So if the parent component were using the value `🌿`

Author: Fixed.

for `emoji` , but you had  `🌱`  in the component's `providers` array,

> Angular would ignore  `🌱` and use `🌿`.

Author: Agreed. Fixed.

> To see this in code, assume that the following value for `emoji` is what the parent component were using, as in this service:

Author: Ah thank you. Added a subsection under `@SkipSelf()` highlighting this.

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/leaf.service.ts" linenums="false" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/leaf.service.ts" region="leafservice">

</code-example>

Imagine that in the child component, you had a different value, `🌱` but you wanted to use the parent's value instead. This is when you'd use `@SkipSelf()`:

<code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/skipself/skipself.component.ts" linenums="false" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/skipself/skipself.component.ts" region="skipself-component">

</code-example>

In this case, the value you'd get for `emoji` would be `🌿`, not `🌱`.

### `@Host()`

`@Host()` lets you designate a component as the last stop in the injector tree when searching for providers. Even if there is a service instance further up the tree, Angular won't continue looking. Use `@Host()` as follows:

> <code-example path="resolution-modifiers/src/app/host/host.component.ts" linenums="false" header="resolution-modifiers/src/app/host/host.component.ts" region="host-component">

Author: For the curious: we have since this comment rewritten this example.

</code-example>

Since `HostComponent` has `@Host()` in its constructor, no matter what the parent of `HostComponent` might have as a `flower.emjoi` value,
the `HostComponent` will use `🌼`. The children of `HostComponent`, so long as they don't provide their own value for `flower.emoji`, will look up the tree to get the value and stop as soon as they encounter an `@Host()`. To see an example of this in action, see the host components in the

> <live-example name="resolution-modifiers">resolution modifiers example</live-example>.

Author: For the curious: I'm resolving this conversation as we worked on the document to such an extent since this conversation that these points have been integrated along the way.

> ### Types of modifiers

Author: Agreed and moved to the top of the Resolution Modifiers section just after the intro. It does read better that way.

Resolution modifiers fall into three categories:

1. What to do if Angular doesn't find what you're looking for, that is `@Optional()`
2. Where to start looking, that is `@SkipSelf()`
3. Where to stop looking, `@Host()` and `@Self()`

> By default, Angular always starts at self and keeps searching all the way to the `root`. Modifiers allow you to change the starting (self) or ending location (`root`).

Author: Got it. Fixed.

Additionally, you can combine all of the modifiers except `@Host()` and `@Self()`. See an [example](guide/dependency-injection-in-action#qualify-dependency-lookup) of using `@Host()` together with `@Optional()`.

{@a component-injectors}

## `ElementInjector` use case examples

The ability to configure one or more providers at different levels opens up useful possibilities.
For a look at the following scenarios in a working app, see the <live-example></live-example>.

### Scenario: service isolation

Architectural reasons may lead you to restrict access to a service to the application domain where it belongs.
For example, the guide sample includes a `VillainsListComponent` that displays a list of villains.
It gets those villains from a `VillainsService`.

If you provide `VillainsService` in the root `AppModule` (where you registered the `HeroesService`),
that would make the `VillainsService` available everywhere in the application, including the _Hero_ workflows. If you later modified the `VillainsService`, you could break something in a hero component somewhere. Providing the service in the root `AppModule` creates that risk.

> <!-- KW  Here ^^ we're saying providing in `root` creates a risk, but it's the CLI default. What are the details of this risk? And doesn't the risk now just apply to the VillainsListComponent?-->

Reviewer 2: I don't think `risk` is a good word. I think a better word is `visibility` By putting it higher in the hierarchy you are making it visible to more locations. Could you rewrite by removing `risk`

Author: Agreed. since the first sentence at line 303 says  the same thing, I've deleted the last sentence and used "visible" in the first sentence:

>If you provided `VillainsService` in the root `AppModule`
(where you registered the `HeroesService`),
that would make the `VillainsService` visible everywhere in the
application, including the _Hero_ workflows. If you later
modified the `VillainsService`, you could break something in a
hero component somewhere.

### @Component-level injectors

Individual components within an NgModule have their own injectors, known as  `ElementInjector`s.
You can limit the scope of a provider to a component and its children
by configuring the provider at the component level using the `@Component` metadata.

The following example is a revised `HeroesComponent` that specifies `HeroService` in its `providers` array. `HeroService` can provide heroes to instances of this component, or to any child component instances.

<code-example path="dependency-injection/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.1.ts" header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts" linenums="false">
</code-example>

### Element injectors

> An injector does not actually belong to a component, but rather to the component instance's anchor element in the DOM. A different component instance on a different DOM element uses a different injector. Angular creates an `ElementInjector` so that it can

Reviewer 2: This is not clear to me. Mental model is that each DOM element has `ElementInjector`. Why talk about anchors?

Reviewer: Given a directive may not on DOM element but DOM comment (`<ng-container>`), shouldn't it be `Node Injector` rather than `Element Injector`?

Author: We've decided to go with the term `ElementInjector` for the guide as it is more specific.

create that injector's component.

Components are a special type of directive, and the `providers` property of

> `@Component()` is inherited from `@Directive()`.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what you are trying to say here.

Author: Rewritten.

  <img src="generated/images/guide/dependency-injection/component-hierarchy.png" alt="injector tree">
</figure>

When a component requests a dependency, Angular tries to satisfy that dependency with a provider registered in that component's own `ElementInjector`.
If the component's injector lacks the provider, it passes the request up to its parent component's `ElementInjector`.
If that injector can't satisfy the request, it passes the request along to the next parent `ElementInjector` up the tree.

> The requests keep bubbling up until Angular finds an injector that can handle the request or runs out of ancestor `ElementInjector`s. If Angular doesn't find the provider in any `ElementInjector`s, it goes back to the element where the request originated and looks in the `ModuleInjector`.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph should be at the top of the document and it should be expanded with more detail and pictures.

Author: For the curious, we've reworked a lot of this material. Resolving this one.

If Angular doesn't find the provider in the two injectors, Angular throws an error.

If you have registered a provider for the same DI token at different levels, the first one Angular encounters is the one it uses to provide the dependency. If, for example, a provider is registered locally in the component that needs a service, Angular doesn't look for another provider of the same service.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> You can cap the bubbling by adding the `@Host()` parameter

Reviewer 2: There are others like `@Self`, `@SkipSelf` and `@Optional` which should be discussed here as well.

Author: Added.

By providing `VillainsService` in the `VillainsListComponent` metadata and nowhere else,
the service becomes available only in the `VillainsListComponent` and its sub-component tree.

> It's still a singleton, but it's a singleton that exists solely in the _villain_ tree.

Reviewer 2: when we talk about a singleton we should always say with respect to what. In this case `VillainService` is a singleton with respect to `VillainsListComponent` because that is where it is declared. As long as `VillainsListComponent` does not get destroyed we will have the same instance of `VillainService` but if there are multilple instances of `VillainsListComponent` than each instance of `VillainsListComponent` will have its own instance of `VillainService`.

Author: Ah, thank you for the explanation. I have added it. 🙏🏼
